Installation Issues:


Q1: Each time I choose an option, any one, I'm presented with the login screen again

A1: webERP uses sessions to store the access level of the user. Sessions allow information to be retained between web pages. Some installations of php do not have session support working by default. The settings in the php.ini relating to sessions are critical. Windows PHP distributions used to use:

session.save_path = /tmp

Windows doesn't like this directory. All php sessions will fail until this is fixed. Changing to:

session.save_path = C:\windows\temp

should resolve the problem.



Q2: I can't use PHPMyAdmin to create the database I get the message:

MySQL said:


You have an error in your SQL syntax. Check the manual that corresponds to your MySQL server version for the right syntax to use near '---------------------------------------------------------
--

A2: PHPMyAdmin does not like files created with mysqldump. The installation instructions are based around the mysql client for that reason. The mysql client program can be run from a DOS window under windows or a terminal window for *nix. Under windows the .exe file is under C:\mysql\bin\mysql.exe by default. Under Windows XP and 2000 click start, run then enter 'cmd' then press ENTER to open DOS window. To create the database enter

>C:\mysql\bin\mysql.exe --user=root < /path_to_the_sql_scripts/web-erp-demo.sql



Q3: I can start webERP ok, but when I try to enter an order (or purchase order/receipt/payment) after selecting a customer I get the message:

Fatal error: The script tried to execute a method or access a property of an incomplete object. Please ensure that the class definition cart of the object you are trying to operate on was loaded _before_ the session was started in /usr/local/httpd/htdocs/web-erp/SelectOrderItems.php on line 282

A3: This error occurs because some linux distributions that came bundled with PHP or were installed from an .rpm file were installed with the setting for session_auto_start in php.ini set to 1. Classes/objects cannot be defined before a session is started so any php script which needs an object to run will fail. The solution is to edit the php.ini file - normally C:\Windows\php.ini or /usr/local/lib/php.ini to change session.auto_start = 0 then restart the web server.




Q4: I get the following error message or similar:

Warning: session_start(): open(C:\Program Files\PHP\sessiondata\sess_35560340884acf1c04184d4df2830fb2, O_RDWR) failed: Permission denied (13) in c:\inetpub\wwwroot\web-erp\includes\session.inc on line 14

A4: This error means that the directory where you have indicated that session information should be held is not writable by the web-server.



Q5: I get the following error message or similar:

Notice: Undefined index: AttemptsCounter in c:\inetpub\wwwroot\web-erp\includes\session.inc on line 20

A5: A notice like this is not an error as such ? it is acceptable to use variables without first initialising them in PHP. To avoid showing these notices a configuration directive in php.in needs to be modified. Look for the line in php.ini
error_reporting  = E_ALL; display all errors, warnings and notices
and change it to :
error_reporting  = E_ALL & ~A_NOTICE

The web-server may need to be restarted - a CGI installation will not need to be restarted. This setting is now enabled by default using a configuration directive in config.php that turns notices off. This error is unlikely to resurface in versions since 2.8



Q6: The links on each page do not work I keep getting page not found errors when selecting menu links.

A6: Some installations appear not to be able to work out the value of the variable $rootpath using the line

$rootpath = dirname($_SERVER['PHP_SELF']);

in config.php. The symptom described is the result. If all else fails just change the $rootpath variable to be the name of the directory under the web server root directory where the scripts are held. EG. by default this would be:

$rootpath = '/weberp';

note the trailing / is not required.




Q7: I am starting from a point well into the business can I start issuing PO and invoices using the same sequence I am already running?

A7: Yes. Use a DB tool like phpMyAdmin to edit the current transactions numbers in the table SysTypes. This table stores the current transaction number for all transaction types. eg. Sales invoices are typeid=10 and sales credit notes are typeid=11 - simply change the typeno field to the number you would like the next invoice/credit note to start at.

Q8: How about sales order numbers? - I wish these to start from x how can I do this?

A8: The sales order number is an auto-incrment field in salesorders table. To make it start at a particular point you need to enter a specific number into that field - using SQL similar to this to make the next order 10,000.

INSERT INTO SalesOrders (OrderNo) VALUES (9999); 
 
Then run 
 
DELETE FROM SalesOrders WHERE OrderNo=9999; 

to remove this bogus order.




Pricing/Orders

Q1: I am trying to enter sales orders for items I do not have in stock but are contained in the stock list, with pricing, etc, yet each time (regardless of item) I get this result. I have checked the item exists, there is pricing for it, both cost and sell. I cannot find the broken link, can anyone help?
The part code 'RJ45M' does not have pricing set up or does not exist in the database and therefore cannot be added to the order.


A1: This could occur for a number of reasons. If you imported the parts into the database from an old system it is important to note that when the system creates inventory items ie through manual entry, it creates stock location records for them as well. You can see if stock location records were set up by inspecting the stock status of the item. You should get each location stock listed. If not you need to create stock location records as necessary - A utility script for this called Z_MakeStockLocns.php - enter this script name in to your browser to run it.
Also check that the customer is defined with a valid sales type (price list) and that a price is setup for the sales type of the customer. Since the sales type is a select box it may not be apparent that the customer does not have a sales type selected. Select a sales type and hit update.
Also check that the parameter in config.php for the DefaultPriceList is set to a defined sales type.
by default it is set to:
$DefaultPriceList = "WS";
if there is no WS sales type defined the system has a problem.
Another reason this can happen is that the branch details for the customer for whom an order is being entered does not have appropraite information entered. Setup the branch details correctly and all should be well.


Q2: Is there any way to enter items into a sales order freeform, in other words without have a specific part set up. For example if I want to sell an item that I do not normally stock and do want to go through the complete entry process to be able to sell it?

A2: Yes. You can enter items into a sales order free form using the special order functionality. First you have to select a supplier that the item is purchased from and the customer that it is to be sold to. Then hit the link on the main menu under orders for special order. This creates a purchase order and sales order for the parts ordered and makes up part codes based on the purchase order number. The purchase cost and the selling price must be entered directly.



Receviables

Q1: When I enter money recevied, it asks if I want a customer receipt or a GL receipt. What are these?


A GL receipt is a receipt of cash which is not as a result of a sale to a customer. Maybe the company paid for some travel where a partner travelled with the employee and the employee re-imburses the company for the partner's travel cost, the receipt of the money from the employee would want to be entered to the credit of the travel account in the general ledger. This is how you would enter it.


Q2: Also, I was entering in the data for the checks received, and it turns out that our customer paid us two dollars less than what he should have. Now, when I go to allocate the money, it won't let me since it is not enough for the bill that is due?  How to I deal with this?

You can also enter the amount to allocate against the invoice manually. If you simply tick the box to fully allocate the invoice then the system assumes you wish to allocate the invoice fully and if there is insufficient in the receipt to fully allocate the invoice it gives an
error. You need to enter the amount to allocate manually in the box provided.

Q3: The following error pops up on invoicing an order that has been dispatched ...what shall I do?

CRITICAL ERROR! NOTE DOWN THIS ERROR AND SEEK ASSISTANCE: The sales GL posting could not be inserted because: You have an error in your SQL syntax. Check the manual that corresponds to your MySQL server version for the right syntax to use near ' 'C1039 - 10615 x 1 @ 500.0000', -500 )' at l

The following SQL to insert the GLTrans record was used:
INSERT INTO GLTrans ( Type, TypeNo, TranDate, PeriodNo, Account, Narrative, Amount ) VALUES ( 10, 2, '2004/11/01', 59, , 'C1039 - 10615 x 1 @
500.0000', -500 )

You must define the sale General Ledger Posting codes. This is the general ledger analysis of sales. It maybe that all sales go to one general ledger account. In which case this general ledger account needs to be set up under main menu, setup,  Sales GL Interface postings. The cost of sales GL Postings should also be setup if you wish to have stock integration. If you dont wish to have general ledger integration this should be switched off by going into Setup tab of the main menu and Compnay preferences, then the option:

Create GL entries for accounts receivable transactions: should be set to no

Also if you don't wish to have general ledger stock integration then you should set

Create GL entries for stock transactions (at standard cost): to no as well.
